These are the checks that are performed, in the order they are performed, to determine if the
state tax refund from last year is taxable on the current federal tax return. It is only taxable
if the taxpayer claimed the state income tax as a deduction and it resulted in lowering the
taxpayer's tax obligation.

Checks
1. You did not enter a value in the field "State Tax Refund". This implies there is no tax refund
to tax. The tax refund usually comes on a form 1099-G, box 2.

	The tax refund is not taxable.
	Explanation: "Tax refund is $0."

2. You did not enter a value in the field "State Income Tax". This implies there was no state income tax
used as a deduction, therefore, any tax refund is not taxable. You can check this on Schedule A of last
year's return. If the state income tax was used, the checkbox on line 5a will not be checked and
the amount of the state income tax deduction will be on line 5a.

	The tax refund is not taxable.
	Explanation: "State income tax is $0; state income tax was not used as a deduction."

3. You checked the checkbox "Sales Tax Was Used". This means the sales tax was used as an itemized
deduction on last year's return. Since you can only deduct the sales tax or the state income tax, not both,
any state tax refund is not taxable. You can check this on Schedule A of last year's return. If the sales tax
was used, the checkbox on line 5a will be checked.

	The tax refund is not taxable.
	Explanation: "State income tax was not used as a deduction."

4. If the amount of the sales tax was greater that the amount of the state income tax, then you could have
used the sales tax deduction instead of the state income tax deduction for the same benefit. Therefore the tax
refund is not taxable.

	The tax refund is not taxable.
	Explanation: "Sales tax is greater that state income tax; sales tax could have
	used instead of state income tax for the same or better result."

5. The state income tax deduction may be limited because of the SALT limit. If the amount of the state
income tax deduction that was lost due to the SALT limit is greater than the tax refund, then the tax
refund is not taxable.

	The tax refund is not taxable.
	Explanation: "All of refund is less than the amount of state and local taxes
	that are over the SALT cap. The refund is not taxable."

Otherwise, the  amount of the state income tax deduction that was lost due to the SALT limit is less than the tax refund, then the tax refund is taxable or partially taxable.

	6. If the itemized deductions are less than the standard deduction, the tax refund is not taxable.

		The tax refund is not taxable.
		Explanation: "Itemized deductions were less than the standard deduction. The taxpayer could have
		used the standard deduction."

	7. If the difference between the itemized deduction and the standard deduction is less than the taxable
	part of the refund

		The tax refund is partially taxable.
		Explanation: "Taxable part of refund was greater than the difference between itemized
		and standard deductions, so taxable amount is limited to that difference."

	8. If the amount of the state income tax deduction that was lost due to the SALT limit is less than
	the tax refund, and the refund is less than the difference between the itemized deductions are less
	than the standard deduction, therefore then the tax refund is partially taxable.

		The tax refund is partially taxable.
		Explanation: "Part of refund is less than the amount of the state and local taxes that are over
		the SALT cap. The remainder of the refund is taxable."

	9. If the state income tax deduction was not limited by the SALT limit, and the refund is less than
	the difference between the itemized deductions are less than the standard deduction, therefore the tax
	refund is taxable.

		The tax refund is fully taxable.
		Explanation: "The state and local taxes are not limited by the SALT cap. The refund is taxable.";


